README.md, before:

# Permissionless Blockchain: Recent Trends, Privacy Concerns, Potential Solutions, and Secure Development Lifecycle

This repository contains the supporting materials for the review paper submitted to the journal *MDPI Future Internet*. 
DOI Link: https://doi.org/10.3390/fi17120547

## Structure
- **Figures_Mermaid** – Mermaid diagram source files (`.mmd`) for conceptual and architectural figures.  
- **Code** – Python scripts used to generate charts included in the paper.  
- **Figures** – Rendered charts (PNG/SVG) generated from the scripts.  
- **Data** – Small example data files (CSV/JSON) used for the visualisations.  
- **references.bib** – Citation file, reference mapping, and license information.

## Usage
To reproduce or view the figures:

```bash
# Render Mermaid diagram
mmdc -i diagrams/mermaid/fig1_architecture_layers.mmd -o fig1_architecture_layers.png

# Run Python chart
python diagrams/python/fig4_research_trends.py

```


## Data Availability Statement: 
All data used was already public. We have added a link to
a GitHub repo containing scripts, etc. that reproduce the
figures in the paper.


## Graphical Abstract

The graphical abstract was generated using React and Recharts.
- Source: `figures/graphical-abstract/App.tsx`
- Dependencies: React 18, Recharts 2.10
- Preview: https://stackblitz.com/edit/vitejs-vite-eznglyde?file=src%2FApp.tsx


## How to cite （BibTeX and APA）

**BibTeX:**
```bibtex
@article{bayan2025permissionless,
  title={Permissionless Blockchain Recent Trends, Privacy Concerns, Potential Solutions and Secure Development Lifecycle},
  author={Bayan, Talgar and Yazici, Adnan and Banach, Richard},
  journal={Future Internet},
  volume={17},
  number={12},
  pages={547},
  year={2025},
  publisher={MDPI}
}
```
**APA:**
```
Bayan, T., Yazici, A., & Banach, R. (2025). Permissionless Blockchain Recent Trends, Privacy Concerns, Potential Solutions and Secure Development Lifecycle. Future Internet, 17(12), 547.
```

DOI Link: https://doi.org/10.3390/fi17120547

Commit message:

Update data availability statement in README
Clarified data availability statement and provided a link to the GitHub repository with scripts.

README.md, after:

# Permissionless Blockchain: Recent Trends, Privacy Concerns, Potential Solutions, and Secure Development Lifecycle

This repository contains the supporting materials for the review paper submitted to the journal *MDPI Future Internet*. 
DOI Link: https://doi.org/10.3390/fi17120547

## Structure
- **Figures_Mermaid** – Mermaid diagram source files (`.mmd`) for conceptual and architectural figures.  
- **Code** – Python scripts used to generate charts included in the paper.  
- **Figures** – Rendered charts (PNG/SVG) generated from the scripts.  
- **Data** – Small example data files (CSV/JSON) used for the visualisations.  
- **references.bib** – Citation file, reference mapping, and license information.

## Usage
To reproduce or view the figures:

```bash
# Render Mermaid diagram
mmdc -i diagrams/mermaid/fig1_architecture_layers.mmd -o fig1_architecture_layers.png

# Run Python chart
python diagrams/python/fig4_research_trends.py

```


## Data Availability Statement: 
All data used in the paper were taken from the public domain. The scripts and programs used to produce the figures in the paper are openly available at 
https://github.com/tbayan/permissionless-blockchain-review-artifacts/tree/main (accessed on 8 November 2025).


## Graphical Abstract

The graphical abstract was generated using React and Recharts.
- Source: `figures/graphical-abstract/App.tsx`
- Dependencies: React 18, Recharts 2.10
- Preview: https://stackblitz.com/edit/vitejs-vite-eznglyde?file=src%2FApp.tsx


## How to cite （BibTeX and APA）

**BibTeX:**
```bibtex
@article{bayan2025permissionless,
  title={Permissionless Blockchain Recent Trends, Privacy Concerns, Potential Solutions and Secure Development Lifecycle},
  author={Bayan, Talgar and Yazici, Adnan and Banach, Richard},
  journal={Future Internet},
  volume={17},
  number={12},
  pages={547},
  year={2025},
  publisher={MDPI}
}
```
**APA:**
```
Bayan, T., Yazici, A., & Banach, R. (2025). Permissionless Blockchain Recent Trends, Privacy Concerns, Potential Solutions and Secure Development Lifecycle. Future Internet, 17(12), 547.
```

DOI Link: https://doi.org/10.3390/fi17120547
